# MODEL8236520494: Yang2008_AAnetwork_PLT

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL8236520494.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL8236520494.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This is the arachidonic acid metabolic network model for human platelet cells
(PLT) described in the article:  
**Finding multiple target optimal intervention in disease-related molecular network.**   
Yang K, Bai H, Ouyang Q, Lai L, Tang C. _Mol Syst Biol._ 2008;4:228. Epub 2008
Nov 4.; PMID: [18985027](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18985027) ,doi:
[10.1038/msb.2008.60](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/msb.2008.60)  
Abstract:  
Drugs against multiple targets may overcome the many limitations of single
targets and achieve a more effective and safer control of the disease.
Numerous high-throughput experiments have been performed in this emerging
field. However, systematic identification of multiple drug targets and their
best intervention requires knowledge of the underlying disease network and
calls for innovative computational methods that exploit the network structure
and dynamics. Here, we develop a robust computational algorithm for finding
multiple target optimal intervention (MTOI) solutions in a disease network.
MTOI identifies potential drug targets and suggests optimal combinations of
the target intervention that best restore the network to a normal state, which
can be customer designed. We applied MTOI to an inflammation-related network.
The well-known side effects of the traditional non-steriodal anti-inflammatory
drugs and the recently recalled Vioxx were correctly accounted for in our
network model. A number of promising MTOI solutions were found to be both
effective and safer.

The model is an updated version of the supplementary material of the article (
[Supplementary Information
3](http://www.nature.com/msb/journal/v4/n1/extref/msb200860-s4.xml) ). The
only difference are the parameter names.

Originally created by libAntimony v1.3 (using libSBML 4.1.0-b1)

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models. It is copyright (c) 2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


